add an article on how to deprecate and hide packs (#1127)
demisto/content-docs: content-repo/extra-docs/articles/deprecation-process-and-hidden-packs.md

---
id: deprecation-process-and-hidden-packs
title: Deprecating content items and hide packs processes
description: Review content items deprecation and hidden packs processes.
---

## What Deprecated Content Item Means
Deprecated content items means the content item should not be used anymore, if an integration, script or a playbook is deprecated,

that means it **shouldn't** be used anymore.

## Supported Content Items
The **only** content items that can be deprecated are **integrations, scripts and playbooks**.

> A pack is considered deprecated when all of its integrations, scripts and playbooks are deprecated.

Author: will wait with it until our sync

> A pack is considered deprecated when all of its integrations, scripts and playbooks are deprecated.

Author: that is a matter of definition mainly

> ## Deprecating integration process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Deprecate an Integration
```
and similiar for the other titles

Deprecating integration is a very simple process. 

1) define in the integration yml file the following key: ```deprecated: true```.

2) Add to the integration yml description the sentence: Deprecated. "reason why it is deprecated" or "use integration v2 instead" or "No available replacement"

no available replacement integration example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/integrations/deprecated-integration-1.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>

use other integration example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/integrations/deprecated-integration-2.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>

## Deprecating script process

> Deprecating script is a very simple process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deprecating script is a very simple process.
```
I do love the can do attitude, though =)

1) define in the script yml file the following key: ```deprecated: true```.

2) Add to the script yml comment the sentence: Deprecated. "reason why it is deprecated" or "use other script instead" or "No available replacement"

no available replacement script example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/scripts/deprecated-script-1.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>  

use other script example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/scripts/deprecated-script-2.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>

## Deprecating playbook process

> Deprecating playbook is a very simple process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 1) define in the playbook yml file the following key: ```deprecated: true```.

Reviewer: same as above, replace "playbook" for script

> 2) Add to the playbook yml comment the sentence: Deprecated. "reason why it is deprecated" or "use other playbook instead" or "No available replacement"

Reviewer: Same as above. "Add X to Y" Is more natural than "To Y add X"

no available replacement playbook example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/playbooks/deprecated-playbook-1.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>

use other playbook example:
<img src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/playbooks/deprecated-playbook-2.png" width="400" align="middle"></img>

## Hidden Packs

> Hidden pack means that customers will not see that pack in the marketplace anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A hidden pack will not be no longer shown in the marketplace.
```

A pack should be hidden from the marketplace when all of its integrations, scripts and playbooks are deprecated.

> Right now there is a validation in our content build which checks whether all the integrations, scripts and playbooks are deprecated for every pack.
> 
> In case all integrations, scripts and playbooks of a single pack are deprecated the validation will alert to make the pack hidden from the marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is such a validation in the demisto-sdk that checks that such packs are marked as hidden.
```

## Making Pack Hidden Process
There are two options to make a pack hidden:

> 1) by adding manually to the `pack_metadata.json` the key ```"hidden": true```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Adding the key ```"hidden": true``` manually to the `pack_metadata.json` file.
```

> 2) by running ```demisto-sdk format -i Packs/<pack-name>/pack_metadata.json``` it will automatically hide the pack as seen below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Running ```demisto-sdk format -i Packs/<pack-name>/pack_metadata.json``` will automatically hide the pack, as shown below.
```
